---
layout: work
author: Michael McDermott
title: Various
slug: p3
subhead: Project 3
categories: [projects]
excerpt: Design a project that combines everything you have learned.
---
### Description
You will conceptualize, plan, and design a project of your choosing.

Each project has a specific set of goals and requirements that should be accomplished. You will find and generate the content that fits the description for your chosen project.

The projects you can choose from are an <a href="#album">Album Packaging</a>, an <a href="#poster">Exhibition Poster</a>, or a <a href="#guide">Travel Guide</a>.

### <span id="album">Album Packaging</span>

#### Objective
Using type as information and as expressive imagery.

#### Assignment
Choose an album you have listened to or create a fictional band and album. If you are creating a fictional band I would recommend using lyrics from songs that already exist even if you change the name of the song. Design a jacket (front cover, spine, and back cover), lyric sheet, sleeve, and labels for the album. The lyric sheet should be front and back on a single sheet and have the lyrics to the songs. The size of the sheet is up to you, but it should respond to the size of the album you choose. The format for the album can be a 12", 10", or three 7" singles. If you choose the 7" singles there should be at least 1 song on each side.

The design should try and create a conceptual connection to the artist and their music through typographic form and avoid using images. The connection should consider mood, emotion, sound, etc. If using an existing artist and album, do not use any visual material from the artist, album, or other albums. This includes colors, typefaces, logos, etc. There is a prompt on the back of the project sheet on Blackboard to help generate content.

#### Requirements
* cover(s) with artist and album name
* back(s) with track list
* spine with artist and album
* lyric sheet
* sleeve(s)
* label(s) on both sides of the record(s)
* designs use a grid
* max of 2 typefaces
* all text is real

#### Checkpoints
* <span class="due">06/20/24_#1</span> &ndash; project chosen
* <span class="due">06/25/24_#2</span> &ndash; initial reference, content, and word list document
* <span class="due">06/27/24_#3</span> &ndash; two digital concepts for the front and back cover
* <span class="due">07/02/24_#4</span> &ndash; refined draft for the jacket and first full draft of the lyric sheet
* <span class="due">07/09/24_#5</span> &ndash; refined draft for jacket, refined draft for lyric sheet, and first draft of sleeve(s) and label(s)
* <span class="due">07/11/24_#6</span> &ndash; one final draft of everything and mocked up
* <span class="due">07/16/24_Final</span> &ndash; full packaging due

### <span id="poster">Exhibition Poster</span>

#### Objective
Using type as information and as expressive imagery.

#### Assignment
This project is a challenge in creating a poster for an artist without using any images of the artist or of the artist's work. Choose an artist from the list provided and create a poster that has a conceptual connection to that artist's work. The connection should go beyond trying to mimic the visual look of the work and consider mood, emotion, material, execution, etc. The only design restriction is that images of the artist's work, real or created, or images of the artist cannot be used in the design. There is a prompt on the back of the project sheet on Blackboard to help generate content.

The poster should include following information &mdash; title of exhibition, name of artist, dates of exhibition (November 19, 2022 to February 5, 2025), exhibition venue (Geoson Contemporary Art Museum), location (Fairfax, VA), at least three paragraphs about the artist or show (does not have to be original writing but should be relevant), your name, and summer 2024.

You will also design a companion four page pamphlet that acts as a mini catalog for the show. The pamphlet should include the same information as the poster but also include images of the artist's work that you curated for the show.

#### Requirements
* 18"x24" portrait format
* your name on poster
* summer 2024 on the poster
* max of 2 typefaces
* title of exhibition
* venue and location
* dates of exhibition
* name of artist
* descriptive text
* no imagery on poster
* four page pamphlet
* uses a grid

#### Checkpoints
* <span class="due">06/20/24_#1</span> &ndash; project chosen
* <span class="due">06/25/24_#2</span> &ndash; initial reference, content, and word list document
* <span class="due">06/27/24_#3</span> &ndash; two digital concepts of poster
* <span class="due">07/02/24_#4</span> &ndash; refined draft of the poster and initial draft of pamphlet
* <span class="due">07/09/24_#5</span> &ndash; further refined draft of poster and booklet
* <span class="due">07/11/24_#6</span> &ndash; final draft of poster and booklet
* <span class="due">07/16/24_Final</span> &ndash; poster and booklet due

### <span id="guide">Travel Guide</span>

#### Objective
Building a consistent layout and hierarchy with type and images.

#### Assignment
Choose a place to create a short guide book for. It should be a place you have been and that has content you can use that is available online. Design a front cover, back cover, table of contents and 14 pages of content for a total of at least 20 pages. The content can all be thematically similar such as only talking about food or locations to visit or can have different groups of content. There is a prompt on the back of the project sheet on Blackboard to help generate content.

The guide can use images that you find online but they need to be high enough quality to use and not be pixelated. The type you use should be thoughtfully chosen but not default to visual tropes that reference the place. Create and use a grid that is consistent across all the pages and include page numbers on the appropriate pages. Remember that while designing a book it is important to keep certain information consistent in design and layout while allowing other information to be more varied in layout and design.

#### Requirements
* 6"x9" page size
* uses a grid
* max of 2 typefaces
* images high enough quality
* all text is real
* at least 20 pages
* front and back cover
* table of contents
* at least 14 pages of content
* has page numbers

#### Checkpoints
* <span class="due">06/20/24_#1</span> &ndash; project chosen
* <span class="due">06/25/24_#2</span> &ndash; initial reference & content document
* <span class="due">06/27/24_#3</span> &ndash; two digital concepts for the cover (front and back) and table of contents and style sheet showing type choices and styles for text
* <span class="due">07/02/24_#4</span> &ndash; refined cover and table of contents and first full draft of content
* <span class="due">07/09/24_#5</span> &ndash; further refined full draft
* <span class="due">07/11/24_#6</span> &ndash; final draft
* <span class="due">07/16/24_Final</span> &ndash; final booklet due
