---
layout: tutorial
author: Michael McDermott
title: Translations
slug: e3
subhead: Exercise 3
categories: [exercises]
---
#### Exercise 3: Translations
Words on their own carry a lot of meaning. That meaning can be emphasized by how the type is treated. In a very simple example, look at the difference between "bold" and "BOLD". The word didn't change but making the word all caps and bold made the word more impactful. For this exercise, you will be visually expressing the meaning of the words by making typographic transformations to those words.

Pick five of the words in the list below and set each one on its own 7"x7" white piece of paper in black [Futura Bold](https://fonts.adobe.com/fonts/futura-pt). You can express the meaning of a word or an idea through spacing, sizing, and placement of letters of each word on the page. This means you should think about things such as point size, tracking, kerning, capitalization, weight, and position of the word and its letters on the page. You should not be altering the letter forms themselves. That means you should not stretch or squish the letters in any direction. Also do not have anything other than the word on the page.

* transition
* expansion
* migration
* elimination
* repetition
* compression
* disruption
* silence
* softness
* loudness
* heavy
* lightness
* addition
* subtraction
* movement

##### Requirements
* five 7" squares
* black type, white background
* uses [futura bold](https://fonts.adobe.com/fonts/futura-pt) only
* type not distorted
* images added to figma
* single pdf uploaded to blackboard

<span class="due">Due Tuesday, {% assign seconds = 5 | times: 24 | times: 60 | times: 60 %}{{ page.date | date: "%s" | plus: seconds | date: "%B %d" }} by 4:30 pm ET</span>
