---
layout: tutorial
author: Michael McDermott
title: Type Sampler
slug: e8
subhead: Exercise 8
categories: [exercises]
---
#### E8: Type Sampler
Design a 16 page, 5 by 8 inch booklet that responds the set of prompts below and uses only type from Adobe Fonts (fonts.adobe.com). The booklet should use a consistent grid from the front to the back and follow principles of good typography throughout. There should be no centered or right aligned type in the booklet.

The stucture of the book should be as follows:
* Page 1: Cover (includes at least your name and "type sampler")
* Page 2: See prompt  &pound;6
* Page 3: Table of Contents using typeface used for headers (prompt &pound;1) and page number (prompt &pound;3)
* Page 4 through 14: Prompts &pound;1&endash;10
* Page 15: See prompt &pound;4
* Page 16: Back Cover

The prompts are:
1. Pick a sans serif typeface to use for headers. Set the text "Breaking, This Typeface to be Used for Headers" on this page and use this typeface for all headers in the book. This typeface should be easy to read. (p4)
1. Pick a serif typeface to use for paragraphs of text. Set three paragraphs of text on this page using placeholder text. Make sure to mark the paragraphs and use this method of marking whenever you set paragraphs. (p5)
1. Pick a monospaced typeface to use for page numbers. The page numbers should be on pages 4 to 14 and in a consistent place on each page. Set a number between 0 and 9 that fills this page. (p6)
1. Pick a script typeface. Set your favorite way to say “hello” on this page and set your favorite way to say “goodbye” on page 15. (p7)
1. Go to practicaltypography.com and read the five sections under “Why Typography Matters.” Select a section and a few key paragraphs and set them on this spread using the typefaces you chose from prompt 01 and 02. (p8 and p9)
1. Pick a decorative typeface. Using this typeface, set your favorite letter, capital or lowercase, on page 2 and your favorite symbol on this page. (p10)
1. Pick a geometric sans serif and create a pattern on this page that uses no more than three unique letters. (p11)
1. Pick a slab serif and set your favorite color on this page. (p12)
1. Pick a modern typeface and set your least favorite color on this page. (p13)
1. Pick a sans serif you would consider friendly. Use that typeface to make a list of your top three favorite months on this page. (p14)

Content that should be consistent in design and location pages 4–14:
* The prompt number and text of prompt using the typeface for headers (prompt &pound;1)
* A page number using the typeface for page numbers (prompt &pound;3)
* The typeface used for that prompt and the designer/foundry for that typeface

##### Requirements
* Can use color or be black and white
* Page size is 5 by 8 inches
* Uses a grid
* PDF exported as spreads uploaded to blackboard
* Image of favorite spread and a link to the PDF on figma

<span class="due">Due Tuesday, {% assign seconds = 7 | times: 24 | times: 60 | times: 60 %}{{ page.date | date: "%s" | plus: seconds | date: "%B %d" }} by 1:30 pm ET</span>
