---
layout: tutorial
author: Michael McDermott
title: In the News
slug: e5
subhead: Exercise 5
categories: [exercises]
---
#### Exercise 5: In the News
A typographic hierarchy expresses the organization of content, emphasizing some elements and subordinating others. A visual hierarchy helps readers scan a text, knowing where to enter and exit and how to pick and choose among its offerings. Each level of heirarchy should be signaled by one or more cues, applied consistently across a body of text. A cue can be spatial (indent, leading, placement) or graphic (size, style, weight). Infinite variations are possible.

Choose a story from the New York Times home page. Set the headline, byline, and text (can be partial) on a 7"x7" page following the guidlines below.

*one set of two pages, nicely set*
Select one typeface to use for both. You can use different weights and styles for the selected typeface.

*second set of two pages, nicely set*
Select two typefaces that pair together nicely. Again, you can also use different weights and styles of the typefaces you choose and these will be set well.

*third set of two pages, experimentally set*
Do whatever you want. Can the layout influence how the story should be read? Can the layout give new meaning to the story? Use these two pages as a playground to make more interesting design decisions and see where they lead.

Things to consider while setting your type on the page:

* point size
* leading
* tracking
* kerning
* emphasis
* grid
* rags
* spacing
* margins
* texture
* alignment
* column width
* paragraph alignment
* paragraph marking
* weight


##### Requirements
* 6, 7" squares
* guidelines followed for 6 layouts
* layouts use a grid
* black type, white background
* images added to figma
* single pdf exported as pages uploaded to blackboard

<span class="due">Due Tuesday, {% assign seconds = 5 | times: 24 | times: 60 | times: 60 %}{{ page.date | date: "%s" | plus: seconds | date: "%B %d" }} by 4:30 pm ET</span>
